
Ordered set of blogs To-Write:
    What is Sprig Land?
        What, Why, Why-Not-X
        Sprig Land aims to be the simplest way to write fun 3D games.
        "fun" does a lot of heavy lifting:
            I want everything that is at the core of good gameplay: 
                multiplayer, performant, diverse game play, local coop,
            I do not want all the bells and whistles that aren't necessary to good gameplay:
                AAA graphics, likely not highly detailed animation, bloat
        "simple" is doing a lot of heavy lifting:
            Simple means learnable, composible, well-crafted
            https://patrickjuchli.com/en/posts/learning-experience/
            I do not want to make something that "works" and then move on
            The goal of this software is not to solve immediate buisness problems,
                it is to craft a tool that will be reliable enough to belong on a well considered tool belt
                I'm an amature wood worker and I work with a lot of high speed saws
                    I would not use a power tool that asks me to allow cookies, 
                        doesn't turn off when I tell it, 
                        expands over time to fill more of my workshop
            Software should be scrutable,
                like any other good tool, you should be able to take it apart, 
                inspect the parts, and replace them as needed.
                The joining of one gear to another should be well considered and sturdy,
                    not made of ducktape and super glue.
            Interfaces are the lifeblood of all software.
        4 Goals:
            To build a fun game that people are willing to pay money for and write favorable reviews of. The flagship game.
            To ruthelessly rewrite that game into a composition of simpler, reliable parts. The sprigland libraries.
            To document the entire process so that one could reconstruct that game with a fraction of the effort. The sprigland tutorials.
            To build tooling to further speed up the building of that game by an order of magnitude. The sprigland tools.
        Repeat.
        Progress in software is only made when tasks become easier. (If you hold resource availability constant.)

        There's another secret goal here. I think this approach is the right way to advance the whole human enterprise of software
            and possibly other complex systems. I choose to start with the domain of games because they're sufficiently compelex
            and sufficiently fun to be intresnictly rewarding and I'm not getting much if any financial reward from this persuit.

        There's yet another secret goal here. This ruthless simplification is not only the best way to be productive,
            it's the best way to make something teachable. The learnability and productivity are inextricably linked.

        To create something better than what was there you have to steep yourself in the domain.

    Roadmap 2021
        It's about the journey as much as it is about the end
        Why will following or sponsoring Sprig Land be useful for you?
            Incremental progress,
            Journey of learning all parts of game making
            Early game making potential,
            Code bits
            Learning content
    Looking Back 2021
    What's in a game?
        DAG of all features of a game
    
Sprigland blog:
    the "why", the "what"
    patreon

    grid of micro blogs entries

    taxonomy of blogs:
        micro blogs / code dumps
        indepth interactive articles
        well considered positions
        "tweets"

Micro entry:
    Scene
    Code @ version or hash
    Dependencies @ version or hash
    Should be easy to open sample for oneself
    optional YouTube video link
    optional written text
    tags

    maybe: "start from X (other project) and follow Y (YouTube link)"
        creates a DAG between projects
        can use a "create lesson plan" to come up with a traversal to a particular topic

    record and replay user inputs?
        resize canvas to 128x128 or something

    future:
        upgradable
        web IDE
        easy dependencies
    
    What do the URLs look like?
        static serve from github pages
        so a project is a self-contained folder
        so to create a project, take an entry point and tree shake off everything else

    Build step:
        From entry point .ts file
            which has a standard attachToCanvas() function
        traverse imports
        collect files to be coppied
        create a readme.md
        tree shake off unused .ts ?
        copy to blog/ folder


Tree shaking:
    to minimize size of examples

    start from the "exportExample" function
    collect all the references it depends on,
    recurse over those

    does this need annotations of which code has side-effects?

    also very useful for keeping out random notes and unrelated & unreviewed snippets of code

    highlight key lines, which are all those using the key definitions

profile Website goals:
    https://halisavakis.carrd.co

Topic article format:
  - first few sentences are wikipedia style summary of what the topic is
  - then some form of interactive demo (w/ gif fallback?) to demonstrate (w/ link to code)
  - then mention it's placement amongst other articles and the dependencies of this article
  - then explain building the thing with intermediate interactables and code links if possible
  - then have a see more section

A possible timeline:
  Year 1: Build an engine
  Year 2: Game in early access
  ---- end of savings. r we funded ?? ----
  Year 3: Game 1.0
  Year 4: Blocks for all
  Year 5: Learning content
  Year 6-20: Iterate