Woodworking interactive tutorial:
    Principle of referencing, distance
    e.g. track saw is so direct
    simulate jitter when going through table saw to show how you must press into the guide
    tolerances and multiplicative effects
    Cutting dovetails
    Joinery principles
    solid wood vs plywood
    structural stress tests
    weight and cost

low-poly inspiration:
    https://store.steampowered.com/app/1203180/Breakwaters/

From games:
    Ghosts of Tsushima:
        Excellent use of photography for quest start/end
        Haiku minigame
        Great foliage and leaves
        You feel like a bad ass
    Spiderman:
        Fluid as hell movement
        Web is such a good movement gimick (which every open world game needs),
            this should probaby be stolen wholesale in more games
    God of War:
        Having a companion that's an important plot point makes a ton of sense
        Pretty, grandiose scale
    Horizon Zero:
        Great archery
        Takedowns are a puzzle
        Beautiful scenery
    Dark souls:
        Combat is slower pace and "simple"
        The game feels fair: it's your fault u died
        Enemy state machines are complex, sometimes they're easy, sometimes tough

Cool features sprigland could have:
  - Export 3D scene. Pause the game, take a snapshot of the whole game's 
    current geometry and export that as a .gltf file u can just load into
    blender.
  - Export to Unity. Export 3D scene to .gltf but also create a unity project
    with all the objects represented logically.
      - If we really wanted to, we could maybe transpile to C#. Yikes.
        We can do a partial transpile and anything we can't just gets dropped as
        a comment blob in C#-esq syntax.
        Could have a snarky comment like:
          {Look, we tried. It's not exactly right... You try writting a TypeScript->C# transpiler. Eh, maybe it's still useful?}

GPU toy tool:
  - has view that shows approx memory layout / usage on GPU
  - "shader templates" for e.g. tex->tex pixel shader like post processing, view embedding, jump flood algorithm, etc
      maybe this is how we do "mesh pool" shader stuff too?
  - prelude and postlude read-only collapsable text snippets w/ usable vars highlighted
  - it'd be nice if it was easy to output intermediate results to some debug texture
      and display that

Unrelated:
  social media check-in app:
    browser extension?
    specify {website, time allowed, interval (daily, weekly, monthly)}
    notifies you if you have check-ins available
    shows you your social page one after another with a timer at the top
    optionally a start button per-site so you know it's fully loaded
    an exception system, but it gets logged and you can see how much excess time you spent
    you get to save links to a reading list

Workshop game:
  You have a garage, 
    (that becomes a detached garage and then gets upgraded in size)
  With tools:
    woodworking,
    welding,
    smelting,
    smithing,
    pottery,
    sewing,
    glass blowing,
    stain glass,
    machining,
  Acquired over time
    Maybe you build your own tools?
  Maybe u sell at the local farmers market?
  Life sim?
    u start in a city,
    move out for more space,
    family?
  
Draw cool rope:
  https://muffinman.io/blog/draw-svg-rope-using-javascript/

For backwards compatibility long term:
  perhaps if a project wants to have backwards compatibility it must:
  1) opt into backwards compatibility, and
  2) provide source code (at least to the service)
  b/c w/ source code access, it's possible to do checks like 
    "wait, does anyone actually count on this broken behavior? 
      if not, we can remove it; 
      if so, we can rewrite or provide a shim for those few;
    "
  The key idea is that whole program analysis is so much more powerful than
    partial program analysis.
  Old code would still work, it just has to be pegged to a specific version
  Just a thought.

Make a game about solving problems using mechanisms like here:
  https://www.youtube.com/@thang010146
  https://www.autodesk.com/products/inventor/overview

Car mechanics explainer:
  show a flat rendering of all the car systems
    all the connections, arranged like a circuit, not caring about space
  show where all the sensors are in the system
    every sensor: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dK4mb1yS0dY&t=1057s
  show the view that the engine control unit sees of the world
  show all the voltages, fluid types, etc throughout the system
    different fluid & air systems will list expected pressure and temperature ranges, under different conditions
  different overlays like:
    temperature, mechanical forces, voltages, fluid types, failure likelyhood
    year introduced,
  then show how it all folds up to fit into the physical form
  maybe some systems start as a black box (e.g. transmission, engine block), but you can click to expand into its subsystems

Make a gameplay involving controlling machinery like:
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_iyiOLpRVA

Tiny magmetic light-only timer for pomodoro
  or vscode touchbar app
  or macos topbar icon

Sprigland codebase itself will eventually be a big teaching tool
  Sprigland can be self hosted
  No dependencies forever,
  push as far down the stack as you can
    (replace browser and compiler)
    crazy: custom silicon
  Document the code really well
  have program-sliced versions that show one aspect
  the promise is: hey look sprigland was built from scratch and you can build anything
    you want yourself too.
  all-in-one promise
  have videos / tutorials that reenact that invention of core components like physics and cytochrome
  
many colored lines wire frame creature:
  like Horizon from Last Horizon,
  creature made of neon-ish wireframe lines
  each a different color,
  starts as mono color, then add more in as a progression mechanic
  
multi-surface navigation: interactive teaching sandbox thing
  full 3d movement in space
  2d movement on a ground plane
  3d movement on a height map
  2d movement on a UV surface
  2d movement w/ polar coordinates on a sphere
  maybe some sort of mech avatar that can launch off into 3d space
  show a grid for whichever space you're in

Physics stewards game idea:
  Each world/region has a steward spirit in charge of keeping the laws of nature running properly.
  Some of them are lazy, corrupt, sad, or otherwise impaired so physics starts getting zany.
  You're sent in to {negotiate with / mediate for / battle against / replace} these spirits.
  and each region has unique challanges b/c of the way the regions laws have degraded.

Game dev peer feedback tool:
  Random idea for a gamedev peer feedback website:
  Akin to Ludum Dare's reciprocal feedback karma system. Upload your demo/dialog/scene/UI snippet, add labels, then explore and provide feedback on others' work and get back as much feedback as you give.

Compositional shaders:
  make a little function from vertex input to fragment output w/ needed globals,
  compose these all together
  e.g. surface + object ID, is easy to write a standalone fn from input to output
  it'll also be nice to be able to reference globals in the way that a system references resources

To help people make their own engine/software:
  provide a big test suite!
  E.g. for their own language, for rendering a scene against a reference ray tracer,

Make a Rounds / Bopl / Duck Game / Spiderheck clone:
  all ur game programming is on the fun stuff: new weapons and effects
  small games that have sold well
  we could customize it to our friends' wants

Companion to "Real-Time Collision Detection" book:
  show's all the colision algorithms with a little test scene
  branches of code are highlighted when taken
  variables are color coded
  shows numbers instead of variable name

Use knots (math) w/ different # crossing as loading symbols
  or maybe knots untangling themselves into other knots or the unknot

Better than JSON:
  Everything is positional
  instead of relabeling keys over and over
  you specify an array or item's type

  {"menu": {
    "header": "SVG Viewer",
    "items": [
        {"id": "Open"},
        {"id": "OpenNew", "label": "Open New"},
        null,
        {"id": "ZoomIn", "label": "Zoom In"},
        {"id": "ZoomOut", "label": "Zoom Out"},
        {"id": "OriginalView", "label": "Original View"},
        null,
        {"id": "Quality"},
        {"id": "Pause"},
        {"id": "Mute"},
        null,
        {"id": "Find", "label": "Find..."},
        {"id": "FindAgain", "label": "Find Again"},
        {"id": "Copy"},
        {"id": "CopyAgain", "label": "Copy Again"},
        {"id": "CopySVG", "label": "Copy SVG"},
        {"id": "ViewSVG", "label": "View SVG"},
        {"id": "ViewSource", "label": "View Source"},
        {"id": "SaveAs", "label": "Save As"},
        null,
        {"id": "Help"},
        {"id": "About", "label": "About Adobe CVG Viewer..."}
    ]
  }}  

  == something like ==>

  type item = {
    id: string,
    label?: string
  }
  type menu = {
      menu: {
        header: string,
        items: item[]
      }
  }
  :menu = [
    SVG Viewer
    [
      Open
      OpenNew,Open New
      ZoomIn,Zoom In
      ZoomOut,Zoom Out
    ]
  ]

Stain glass analytical renderer,
  glass panel segments are triangles,
  those get projected mathematically,
  ray tracing works on triangle segments not texture

3D SVG showcase:
  svg examples
  3d,
  roller coaster
  traced by:
    particles
    dots
    lines
    extruded geometry
  click on a path to see path fn
  on GPU:
    linearize path to look-up-table
      lookup w/ linear interp sample
    traverse as parametric fn
  heirarchy of transforms

Perfect Grass Cutting Samurai
  1 second left stick capture buffer for movement
  1 second right stick analog capture for sword swing arc, height and direction
  cut bezier style (Ghost of T) computed grass precisely where the sword swing happens,
  spawn particles for the tops of the grass
  
4 player coop dungeon crawler roguelike, 
  twin stick
  unoriginal, but still lacking in enough great hits
  unoriginal is probably good for early projects

The perfect uber game:
  different analog challenges:
    aim and shoot
    learn and perfect excavator controls
  creative crafting:
    voxel building,
    woodworking,
    clayworking,
    analog smithing,
  
calendar.bingo
  availability.exchange
  availability.chat
  timeslots.lol
  timeslots.social
  timeslots.day
  timeslots.fyi
  startDay (day since jan1 2024)
  numWeeks (1/7,1,2,3,default 4)
  granularity (10min, 1hr, morning/late-morning/afternoon/evening)
  click and drag cells
  color pallette (not available, ideal, less-ideal)

Wierd non-sensical GI approach:
  scatter triangles throughout the scene
  render those triangles from camera and each light
    for light, sort back to front (or linked list)
  use triangles to approx volumetric info
  secondary rays from light angle to other triangles
    accelerated with bvh
  
Factory code visualization
  bus on the left,
    each lane is a variable
    grouped by scope (local, loop, environment, ...)
  each line pulls from the bus, chains through a number of functions (left-to-right), optionally puts back on the bus
  starting lines on the bus come from parameters
  output lines go to the return
  updating a variable swaps the contents on a line (break in the line)
  bus represents scoped variables over time
  lambdas: mini in-line factories
  TODO:
    how best to represent structured data, arrays, etc?

Modal indicator lights:
  Every editor/command line/app etc that can have different "modes" _MUST_ inlcude 
    little indicator lights (~few pixels in size) that together tell you exactly what mode you're in
  You can hover over the indicators to see what modes are active and how to exit them.
  
  I just got my command line stuck in some wierd state b/c I must have hit some key cord and I had to exit
    and restart the whole thing.

Visual programming of the GPU:
  Build webgpu pipelines w/ drag n drop
    Resources, groups, pipelines, textures
    late binding,
  program simple logic that runs in compute shaders
  code generated can be efficient enough to build a whole advanced renderer
  System provided uniform buffers w/ key and mouse inputs
  perhaps using my "factory" style programming language paradigm
    builds are sized based on the number of cycles needed to run those instructions?
  visualization of a GPU die, showing which areas are lit up and which times 
    shows bandwidth amounts between different areas
    shows amount of ALU, samplers, etc
  nice controlled environment w/ lots of dbg instruments/counters
  but a very thin stack of software (compared to e.g. web, desktop, or mobile)

Perfect module system:
  mostly like JS's import { foo } from "./bar.js"
  but allow importing partial modules. It is like it awaits the export statements.
  So if a module has "await promiseFoo;" halfway through it, any exports before that
  can be imported just fine without stalling until the whole module is finished.
  Mixes in some of dynamic import();

Sprigland content:
  Once sprigland is at peak usability,
  reproduce all the technical content from redblob, coding adventures, others
  Obviously with plenty of attribution,
  meant to be a unified playground for exploring technical topics

Game idea:
  cut down trees like valheim
  dig ground like minecraft
  cut grass like ???
  tight combat like {hades? dark souls?}

Game about efficient (GPU?) programming:
  You start with this enormous factory
  You pass it instructions
  Small parts of the factory light up at a time
    One little pocket of light moving through the factory
  You slowly use more and more parallelism and ensure all areas are saturated with work (ALU, L2, occupancy, etc)
  Then there's a global throttle based on wattage, or heat
  You're scored based on computation done per watt, while accomplishing the task

  Maybe there's a catalog of common GPUs / CPUs built in and you get to play your own chip w/ hardware counters from e.g. NVidia NSight
  
Cracked planets:
    the Galactic Republic visist a planet and shatters it to harvest the metal at the core
    the Free Factions follow in their wake, and restich the parts together with some gravity tech
    the planet is loosly held together set of planet shards, still moving around through space
    You can fly throughout the planet Fragments, each developes into little empires
    Perhaps you can build up rockets on a Fragment and drive it away from the planet to be an interstellar ship

    Maybe the core contains the Essence of Gravity and once the core is taken the Fragments can drift through space
      more easily since they're robbed of gravity. Making them great scafolds for a space colony.

    The old outer shell/crust is where the habitable fragments mainly come from.
    But there's also geodes freed from the magma

Combat shapes:
  Combat is about doing damage
  All attacks have a shape they trace through space and time
    Arc, beam, ball, etc
  Different material take dmg differently
  So to get around armour, .. go around it, or in the cracks

Systems gameplay:
  You gain instruments which you then manually arrange for your own steampunk hud
    E.g. how much damage a material needs etc, enemies,
    so many things are measurable

First game: 3D engine, 2D gameplay
  Can't give up on 3D, but makes sense to do things 2D to start

Game with 100 physics systems:
  Most games have 1
  But every material is different
    Voxel-y ground
    Splinter rocks
    chop trees
    mill trunks into planks
    forge metal
    sharpen a blade
    connect a water wheel to a river
  instead of simulating these actions everywhere always in 100 systems
    you instead prove it works
      you connected your contraption to a water source,
      you proved the wheel spins, dilvering rotational power
      and proved that moves the blade, which will mill wood below a certain size and hardness
    now your machine runs reliably with inputs and outputs but no internal simulation, just some baked (from your physics) animation

Delightful resource gathering:
  throwing the hook in Raft
  chopping trees in Valheim
  using magic mining & chopping in Dragonwilds
  excavator + dump druck + reclaimer + train car
  mining in minecraft
  mining in space engineers
  hoovering in astroneer
  
Cool engineering:  
  use 10:1 reduction system to create precise parts, panto-router or pantograph
  use cam shaft to run 2d fourier transform for arbitrary shapes

Cool mining:
  Wait, why a pick axe? we've got magic! Use explosives like modern mining
  Drill a hole in rock, launch a spell down, huge explosion, cracking the stone
    better dodge the backlash that comes up the hole
  huge cliff face of rock falls down
  dust everywhere...
    use rain spell to bring dust down
  go in, find the ore, break it smaller, load it onto a levetation pad
  optimal problem involves creating a strip mine, inverted pyramid thing

Cool wood chopping:
  tree is a bundle of fibers, maybe ~10x10 fibers,
  as you cut them, it recalculates mass, strain, etc
  falls accurately
  use old metal gear slicing thing to precisely aim the axe or spell blade

  eventually machines that grab a log, strip it's leaves and bark

  u get logs in the length and thickness you cut
  only get so many boards per tree

Learning blogs like https://ciechanow.ski except:
  - they also have Q/A study cards that you can one click add to a Anki like study pack
  - they also have a note taking section, u should write ur own notes along with the article
      - each new bullet point remembers where in the article u were when u created the bullet

Don't prevent resource gathering:
  Fruit Ninja is a whole game about slicing. Once you're in the flow, you might not want to get out, and that should be rewarded with steady progress.
  Like that time i cut a whole forest in Valheim. Just let the player keep doing what they want. And it's pretty fun to stockpile a huge amount of wood while being in the zone.
  Resource veins should be nearly infinite, the effort of the mini-game is the limiter.

Simple multiplayer game ideas:
  Hell Divers -like
  Boomer shooter co-op, Serious Sam -ish
  Guantlet-style action RPG
  Minecraft clone
  Escape From Duckov but co-op
  Wanderburg but co-op

Slow is smooth, smooth is fast