"build your own 3D multiplayer game in the browser with blocks, typescript, or rust"

Games should be easier to make.
Programming should be easier to learn.

Programs should be easier to understand.

Emphasis on gameplay.
Ruthelessly simplify your abstractions.

Programming should be easier to learn.
All considerations are secondary to gameplay.
All abstractions must be ruthelessly simplified.
The goals are one and the same.

Games first and foremost must be FUN.
Programs first and foremost must be UNDERSTANDABLE.

You can't iterate on something you don't understand.
You shouldn't program something you won't enjoy.

https://twitter.com/andreintg/status/1405771128035954694
    "the real dream: a Unity/UE competitor based on SDF tech, with standard web deploy. 
    A game-jam bazooka with strong Flash vibes. The pieces are all out there already."
    
    "A game engine like Dreams, but running on PC and exporting to the usual target platforms, 
    would be very, very, very, very, very, very successful."

A roguelite sailing game set in the waters of hyperspace

If you liked Sea of Thieves but wished there was more progression
If you liked Oregon Trail, balancing your starting cargo just so; food or ammunition?
If you liked personalizing and your home and your weapons in a mash of The Sims and Mechwarrior
If you liked the relief of coming into port after a long trecherous journey like Sunless Skies
If you liked Master and Commander and the trials of a sailor's life
If you liked MtG, Super Auto Pets, Slay the Sprire, and the magical syngergy of "having a build"
If you liked Deep Rock Galactic and it's mission selection

If you believe gameplay, cooperative fun, and interesting mechanics should come first
If you believe less is more, and fewer asset details can still support world-class gameplay

What it's unlikely to have:
A well crafted story with character development and plot surprises
Environment, creature, and ship models that impress you with their detail and realism
AAA-game lighting, animation, and polish
