APPEND ONLY. Just a stream of conciousness as the inspiration strikes.

Start docked and your goal is to reach the next dock along the river.
Oregon trail style, you can load out your ship at docks.
You can take a bigger gem which increases your payout but also the difficulty.
The river sometimes splits, with different challenges and rewards down different paths.
You can buy maps from docks that tell you splits, lengths, etc.
Sometimes you enter a large lake and you have to navigate edges to find tributaries.
River can get wider and narrower.
Maybe you are on the ocean somtimes and you need to sail w/ wind.
Maybe your bringing food and supplies to little towns.
You can hire AI crew.
Everyone needs to eat and drink?
You can lose supplies by getting damaged.
  Like the gem heart, supply boxes straddle multiple ship tiles and 
    all need to be broken before you loose them.
You can repair ship tiles.
Fire cannons and broad sides.
Steer to line up shots and follow the river.
Players wear hats depending on their job.
  Maybe done automatically based on station/turret.
The game lobby is just the ship at dock.

With more players, eventually just add another ship.
  Widen the river and add enemies to compensate.

Branches in the river are actually water falls.
  Makes it easier to have something floating above the waterfall to indicate.
  Makes it clear that it's one-way.
  Nice chance to reset.
  Obscures what is ahead.

Game modes: Arcade vs Journey
  Journey: persistent, traveling dock to dock, rpg progression, maybe story
  Arcade: one run, maybe rogue-lite, easier to just do w/ friends

Cannon ball effects (positive and negative):
  (assumes many enemies take several hits)
  Cannon balls bounce off boats in a random direction
  Cannon balls are discus that skips along the water N times
  Cannon balls home on enemies
  Cannon balls splinter into shrapnel on strike
  Cannon balls burst into flak after X time
  Cannon ball project speed increases, arc flatens
  Mortar: Cannon ball is has higher min and max pitch but shoots farther
  Cannon fire reload is shared amongst all cannons
  Cannon fire pushes the ship
  Cannon balls push enemy boats
  Cannon ball creates vortex that alters the current of the river
  Cannon fires N balls at once (shotgun)
  Cannon fires 3 balls in a row (burst fire)
  All cannon balls attach a grappling hook, pulling enemies towards u
  all powder, no ball: cannons don't fire balls, instead they shoot a short range ball of fire
  Torpedo: The cannon turret is replaced with a underwater parascope and you shoot torpedoes at the bottom of boats
  Cannon turret relocates to a random hard point after every attack
  The cannon turret can be picked up and fired from the hip
  Cannon balls follow an outward spiral trajectory around the ship
  Lifesteal: cannon balls ricochet wood splinters back from the enemy boat to heal you
  Cannon balls stick to enemy boats, weighing them down and sinking them
  Anchor: Cannon balls are extremely heavy, with almost no range, and are chained to your ship causing your ship to anchor turn; disintigrate after a while
  Cannons fire shark bait causing sharks to attack the target
  Cannon balls apply fire that does damage-over-time once enough fire builds up
  Cannons can fire players
  Cannons damage the ship when firing
  Cannons roll backward when firing and need to be pushed back into place
  Cannons continually spin in a circle and you must time your shot to choose the yaw
  lightning rod: Cannon balls float and after a few seconds a lighting bolt strikes them in the water
  Cannon balls attach and inflate as a baloon, lifting enemy boats into the air
  Glass cannon: each cannon can be fired only once
  Cannon can no longer fire and are replaced with a big spike that does damage to enemy ships you run into
  Cannons don't fire balls instead they fire a burst of air that deflects incoming cannon balls
  Kick forward: Cannon fire pulls the ship towards the direction of fire
  Oil fire: cannon balls apply fire to the water, damaging boats that come into it
  Tracer: cannon balls leave a visible trail in the air, making it easier to aim
  Broadside: a row of connected cannons all aim and fire together

Broadsides:
  Master and Commander:
    https://youtu.be/f06_CkYvIik?t=125
  Sea of Thieves:
    https://youtu.be/H3NF4IDClKQ?t=85

Woah, so u know how i have this idea to have a slingshot on the boat that flings the player forward a bit?
What if, at the end of a biome, there is a giant boat-flinging flingshot that launches the whole boat!
And get this, it flings it toward a new planet!
Like there were planets in the sky the whole time but u thought they were just part of the skybox, but actually they r the next biome!!

-------
Doug and Daryl game sketch
-------

Came into posession of hyperspace ship
for reasons, need to sail from A to B across galaxy
u do this by traveling hyperspace network
when u go through a gate, can exit from 1-4 exits
  gates are probably in a solar system? or planets?
gameplay-wise: u enter in one place, u have some choices where to navigate to
  this navigation choice could be done in the overworld?
is it a stellaris graph?
  nice b/c it gives u series of transits
or is it stormlight-mental world? parallel reality?
gates on planets,
  u don't need to explain a ship being in space

Hyperspace traders
Spatial delivery


Ship mega upgrades:
  - the front of the ship is a hinge and both sides swing forward to present one fat broadside
  - the ship submarines or flips over in water to sneak up between two ships to give a double broadside
  - fly down through a planet core Starwars ep1 style
  - fly through the mouth of a giant monster
  - cannons become attached to big gyroscope style swivels for all directions combat
      - lesser: rings (ring normal along ship dir)
  - cannon ball spawns portal on enemy ship
  - enemy ships scale up into M x N matrix of cannons facing you
    - u shoot individual cannon spots, maybe u can collapse an entire row
    - peglin cannon balls bounce between enemy cannons
    - bullet hell dodging

Ship travels through hyperspace:
  - Explict gates
  - license to make it spook and have some abstract concepts and madness
  - anything goes
  - can zoom through nebulas!!!

Surface generation:
  Repulsive surface:
    https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~kmcrane/Projects/RepulsiveSurfaces/index.html
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJgK0jjd6oE
    https://github.com/icethrush/repulsive-surfaces
  https://twitter.com/keenanisalive
  sphere inside out:
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OI-To1eUtuU
  https://store.steampowered.com/app/1297210/Tandis/
